# **The Markdown Guide**
## **Author: Matt Cone**
<br>

## **What is Markdown?**
It's one of the lightweight markup languages that we can use to add formatting elements to plain text documents. And, Created by John Gruber in 2004.

<br>

## **Why Markdown?**
It's Powerful 💪 and Simple 🤯 to use than a WYSIWYG editors. And, it's used everywhere to create documents, books and technical documentation.

Depending on the application we use, we may or may not be able to preview the formatted document in real time. But, that's okay. Markdown syntax is designed to readable and unobtrusive, so the text in Markdown files can be readable even if it isn't rendered.

<br>

**Note:** There are supersets of Markdown. They include Gruber's basic syntax and build upon it by adding additional elements like tables, code blocks, syntax highlighting, URL auto-linking and footnotes.

**Some common supersets:**

- [CommonMark](http://commonmark.org)
- [GitHub Flavored Markdown (GFM)](http://github.github.com/gfm)
- [Markdown Extra](http://michelf.ca/projects/php-markdown/extra)
- [MultiMarkdown](http://fletcherpenney.net/multimarkdown)

<br>

## **How Markdown works?**
When we write in Markdown, the text is stored in a plaintext file that has an `.md` or `.markdown` extension. Then, a Markdown application uses a `Markdown Processor (parser/implementation)` to convert it into HTML file. At this point, the document can be viewed in a browser or combined with a stylesheet to be printed.

<br>

**Phases of Markdown:**

> **Markdown Syntax:** It's what we type in our Markdown Editor.

> **HTML:** It's the HTML Code that'll be generated by the Markdown Processors'.

> **Rendered Output:** This is what the reader will see.

<!-- #TODO: DOODLE HOW IT WORKS -->
<br>

## **Where can we use Markdown?**

1. Websites (Static Site Generators, CMS)
1. Documents
1. Notes
1. Books
1. Presentations
1. Emails
1. Documentations

<br>

## **Syntax:**